readme.md, before:

# react-org-chart by UNICEF

React component for displaying organizational charts.

This component is based on https://github.com/coreseekdev/react-org-chart. On top of it, we added a few customizations for our needs.

# Features

Original:

- High-performance D3-based SVG rendering
- Lazy-load children with a custom function
- Handle up to 1 million collapsed nodes and 5,000 expanded nodes
- Pan
- Zoom in zoom out

Added:

- Lazy-load of parents
- Bind zoom in and zoom out and zoom extension to buttons
- Download SVG as image and PDF

### React Props

| **property**      | **type**   | **description**                                                           | **example**                                                        |
| ----------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| tree              | `Object`   | Nested data model with some of all the employees in the company (Required)     | See sample below. |
| nodeWidth         | `Number`   | Width of the component for each individual (Optional)                     | 180                                                                |
| nodeHeight        | `Number`   | Height of the component for each individual (Optional)                    | 100                                                                |
| nodeSpacing       | `Number`   | Spacing between each of the nodes in the chart (Optional)                 | 12                                                                 |
| animationDuration | `Number`   | Duration of the animations in milliseconds (Optional)                     | 350                                                                |
| lineType          | `String`   | Type of line that connects the nodes to each other (Optional)             | “angle” “curve”                                                    |
| downloadImageId   | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger the download of the org chart as PNG. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional) | "download-image" (default)                                         |
| downloadPdfId     | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger the download of the org chart as PDF. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional)  (Optional)        | "download-pdf" (default)                                           |
| zoomInId          | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger a zoom of the org chart. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional)  (Optional)                                     | "zoom-in" (default)                                                |
| zoomOutId         | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger the zoom out of the org chart. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional)                                  | "zoom-out" (default)                                               |
| zoomExtentId      | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will display whole org chart svg fit to screen. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID(Optional)                              | "zoom-extent" (default)                                            |
| loadParent(personData)        | `Function` | Load parent with one level of children (Optional)                         | See usage below                                                  |
| loadChildren (personData)      | `Function` | Load the children of particular node (Optional)                           | See usage below                                                  |
| onConfigChange    | `Function` | To set the latest config to state on change                               | See usage below                                                  |
| loadConfig        | `Function` | Pass latest config from state to OrgChart                                    | See usage below                                                  |
| loadImage(personData)         | `Function` | To get image of person on API call (Optional)                             | See usage below                                                  |



### Sample tree data

```jsx

{
  id: 1,
  person: {
    id: 1,
    avatar: 'https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/spbroma/128.jpg',
    department: '',
    name: 'Jane Doe',
    title: 'CEO',
    totalReports: 5
  },
  hasChild: true,
  hasParent: false,
  isHighlight: true,
  children: [
    {
    id: 2,
    person: {
      id: 2,
      avatar: 'https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/spbroma/128.jpg',
      department: '',
      name: 'John Foo',
      title: 'CTO',
      totalReports: 0
    },
    hasChild: false,
    hasParent: true,
    isHighlight: false,
    children: []
  },
  ...
  ]
}

```

### Usage

You have a complete working example in the **[examples/](https://github.com/unicef/react-org-chart/tree/master/examples)** folder 

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import OrgChart from '@unicef/react-org-chart'

handleLoadConfig = () => {
   const { config } = this.state
   return config
}

render(){
  return (
    <OrgChart
      tree={tree}
      downloadImageId="download-image"
      downloadPdfId="download-pdf"
      onConfigChange={config => {
        // Setting latest config to state
        this.setState({ config: config })
      }}
      loadConfig={d => {
         // Called from d3 to get latest version of the config. 
        const config = this.handleLoadConfig(d)
        return config
      }}
      loadParent={personData => {
        // getParentData(): To get the parent data from API
        const loadedParent = this.getParentData(personData)
        return Promise.resolve(loadedParent)
      }}
      loadChildren={personData => {
        // getChildrenData(): To get the children data from API
        const loadedChildren = this.getChildrenData(personData)
        return Promise.resolve(loadedChildren)
      }}
      loadImage={personData => {
        // getImage(): To get the image from API
        const image = getImage(personData.email)
        return Promise.resolve(image)
      }}
    />
  )
}
```


# Development

```bash
git clone https://github.com/unicef/react-org-chart.git
cd react-org-chart
npm install
```

To build in watch mode:

```bash
npm start
```

To build for production

```bash
npm run build
```

Running the example:

```bash
cd example/
npm install # Only first time
npm start
```

# License

Copyright 2019 UNICEF http://www.unicef.org
Developed by ICTD, Solutions Center and Support, Digital Tools and Platforms, Custom Aplications Team, New York.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

documentation for command to deploy

readme.md, after:

# react-org-chart by UNICEF

React component for displaying organizational charts.

This component is based on https://github.com/coreseekdev/react-org-chart. On top of it, we added a few customizations for our needs.

# Features

Original:

- High-performance D3-based SVG rendering
- Lazy-load children with a custom function
- Handle up to 1 million collapsed nodes and 5,000 expanded nodes
- Pan
- Zoom in zoom out

Added:

- Lazy-load of parents
- Bind zoom in and zoom out and zoom extension to buttons
- Download SVG as image and PDF

### React Props

| **property**      | **type**   | **description**                                                           | **example**                                                        |
| ----------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| tree              | `Object`   | Nested data model with some of all the employees in the company (Required)     | See sample below. |
| nodeWidth         | `Number`   | Width of the component for each individual (Optional)                     | 180                                                                |
| nodeHeight        | `Number`   | Height of the component for each individual (Optional)                    | 100                                                                |
| nodeSpacing       | `Number`   | Spacing between each of the nodes in the chart (Optional)                 | 12                                                                 |
| animationDuration | `Number`   | Duration of the animations in milliseconds (Optional)                     | 350                                                                |
| lineType          | `String`   | Type of line that connects the nodes to each other (Optional)             | “angle” “curve”                                                    |
| downloadImageId   | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger the download of the org chart as PNG. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional) | "download-image" (default)                                         |
| downloadPdfId     | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger the download of the org chart as PDF. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional)  (Optional)        | "download-pdf" (default)                                           |
| zoomInId          | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger a zoom of the org chart. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional)  (Optional)                                     | "zoom-in" (default)                                                |
| zoomOutId         | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will trigger the zoom out of the org chart. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID (Optional)                                  | "zoom-out" (default)                                               |
| zoomExtentId      | `String`   | Id of the DOM element that, on click, will display whole org chart svg fit to screen. OrgChart will bind the click event to the DOM element with this ID(Optional)                              | "zoom-extent" (default)                                            |
| loadParent(personData)        | `Function` | Load parent with one level of children (Optional)                         | See usage below                                                  |
| loadChildren (personData)      | `Function` | Load the children of particular node (Optional)                           | See usage below                                                  |
| onConfigChange    | `Function` | To set the latest config to state on change                               | See usage below                                                  |
| loadConfig        | `Function` | Pass latest config from state to OrgChart                                    | See usage below                                                  |
| loadImage(personData)         | `Function` | To get image of person on API call (Optional)                             | See usage below                                                  |



### Sample tree data

```jsx

{
  id: 1,
  person: {
    id: 1,
    avatar: 'https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/spbroma/128.jpg',
    department: '',
    name: 'Jane Doe',
    title: 'CEO',
    totalReports: 5
  },
  hasChild: true,
  hasParent: false,
  isHighlight: true,
  children: [
    {
    id: 2,
    person: {
      id: 2,
      avatar: 'https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/spbroma/128.jpg',
      department: '',
      name: 'John Foo',
      title: 'CTO',
      totalReports: 0
    },
    hasChild: false,
    hasParent: true,
    isHighlight: false,
    children: []
  },
  ...
  ]
}

```

### Usage

You have a complete working example in the **[examples/](https://github.com/unicef/react-org-chart/tree/master/examples)** folder 

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import OrgChart from '@unicef/react-org-chart'

handleLoadConfig = () => {
   const { config } = this.state
   return config
}

render(){
  return (
    <OrgChart
      tree={tree}
      downloadImageId="download-image"
      downloadPdfId="download-pdf"
      onConfigChange={config => {
        // Setting latest config to state
        this.setState({ config: config })
      }}
      loadConfig={d => {
         // Called from d3 to get latest version of the config. 
        const config = this.handleLoadConfig(d)
        return config
      }}
      loadParent={personData => {
        // getParentData(): To get the parent data from API
        const loadedParent = this.getParentData(personData)
        return Promise.resolve(loadedParent)
      }}
      loadChildren={personData => {
        // getChildrenData(): To get the children data from API
        const loadedChildren = this.getChildrenData(personData)
        return Promise.resolve(loadedChildren)
      }}
      loadImage={personData => {
        // getImage(): To get the image from API
        const image = getImage(personData.email)
        return Promise.resolve(image)
      }}
    />
  )
}
```


# Development

```bash
git clone https://github.com/unicef/react-org-chart.git
cd react-org-chart
npm install
```

To build in watch mode:

```bash
npm start
```

To build for production

```bash
npm run build
```

Running the example:

```bash
cd example/
npm install # Only first time
npm start
```

To deploy the example to gh-pages site

```bash
npm run deploy
```

# License

Copyright 2019 UNICEF http://www.unicef.org
Developed by ICTD, Solutions Center and Support, Digital Tools and Platforms, Custom Aplications Team, New York.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
